In Istanbul, MI6 agents James Bond and
Eve Moneypenny pursue mercenary Patrice,
who has stolen a hard drive containing details
of undercover agents. As Bond and Patrice fight
atop a moving train, M orders Moneypenny to
shoot Patrice, despite not having a clear shot;
Moneypenny inadvertently hits
Bond, who falls into a river.
Bond is presumed dead and Patrice
escapes with the hard drive.
Three months later, due to a public inquiry
into M's handling of the stolen hard drive,
she is pressured to retire by Gareth Mallory,
the chairman of the Intelligence and Security
Committee of Parliament and a former SAS
officer. Although she claims she is still useful,
MI6's servers are hacked, and M receives
a taunting computer message moments before
the MI6 building explodes. Bond, who used his
presumed death to retire, learns of the attack and
returns to service in London. He fails a series of
physical, medical, and psychological examinations,
but M approves his return to the field,
ordering him to identify Patrice's employer,
recover the hard drive, and kill Patrice. He
meets Q, MI6's new quartermaster, who gives
him a radio beacon and a Walther PPK pistol.
In Shanghai, Bond follows Patrice but is unable
to prevent him killing a target. The two fight and
Patrice falls to his death before Bond can learn
his employer's identity. Bond finds a casino token
Patrice intended to cash in for the assassination,
leading him to a casino in Macau. There, Bond
is approached by Sévérine, Patrice's accomplice.
Recognising her tattoo, he concludes she was a sex
slave "rescued" by a criminal who now employs her,
a man Bond wishes to meet. She warns him he
is targeted by her bodyguards, but promises
to help if Bond kills her employer. Bond thwarts
the attack and joins Sévérine on her yacht, the
Chimera. They travel to an abandoned island off
the coast of Macau, where the crew captures and
delivers them to Sévérine's employer, Raoul Silva.
Once an MI6 agent, Silva turned to cyberterrorism
and orchestrated the attack on MI6. Silva kills
Sévérine, but Bond alerts MI6 reinforcements
who capture Silva for rendition to Britain.
At MI6's new underground headquarters,
Q attempts to decrypt Silva's laptop, but
inadvertently gives it access to the MI6 servers,
allowing Silva to escape. Q concludes Silva
wanted to be captured as part of a plan to kill M,
whom he resents for disavowing and betraying him
to the Chinese government in 1997, leaving him
to be tortured and disfigured. Bond chases Silva
through the London Underground and thwarts Silva's
attack at a Parliament inquiry where M is present.
Instructing Q and Bill Tanner to leave an
electronic trail for Silva to follow, Bond
uses his Aston Martin DB5 to take M to Skyfall,
his childhood home in the Scottish Highlands.
They meet Skyfall's gamekeeper Kincade,
and together the trio set up a series
of booby traps throughout the house.
When Silva's men arrive, Bond, M, and Kincade kill
most of them, but M is wounded. Silva arrives by
helicopter with more men and heavy weapons, so
Bond sends M and Kincade through a priest hole
to hide in a nearby chapel, and rigs propane tanks
to explode. As the house and the helicopter are
destroyed, Bond escapes down the same tunnel.
Silva survives the destruction of the house,
following Kincade and M to the chapel.
Confronting M, Silva forces his gun into
her hand and presses his temple to hers, begging
her to kill them both. Bond arrives and kills
Silva by throwing a knife into his back. M then
succumbs to her wounds and dies in Bond's arms.
Following M's funeral, Moneypenny
formally introduces herself to Bond
and tells him she is retiring from
fieldwork to become secretary for Mallory,
the newly appointed M. Bond meets with Mallory,
and tells him he is ready to get back to work.